90 Days of DevOps

Day 3 Task: Basic Linux Commands

Task: What is the linux command to

Q1: 1. To view what's written in a file.
'cat' is a command through which you can review waht's written in a file.

Q2: To change the access permissions of files.
'chmod 777' the commad to change the file's permissions is chmod (you must be an admin to run this command or you can use sudo before chmod) 
and then the numbers shows the access levels for file's owner, groups and publice. 

There are 3 permission's level for each group.
1. Read    (r) - 4
2. Write   (w) - 2
3. Execute (x) - 1

So, as mention above 'chmod 777' which means you are giving full permissions to all the types of owners,
you have to do some maths in order to understand the permissions mechanism, let's suppose there is a 
file on which you want to give full acess (rwx) to the owner of a file, read and write (rw-) permissions 
to the groups and for others or public only read (r--)permissions. You can use the following command.

                 sudo chmod 764 <filename>


Q3. To check which commands you have run till now.
'History' is the command through which you can check which commands you have run till now.

Q4: To remove a directory/ Folder.
                rmdir <directory name>
Q5: To create a fruits.txt file and to view the content.
There are more than 1 commands to create a text file in Linux you can use 'touch <filename.txt> command
or you can use vim <filname.txt> or nano <filname.txt>. if you use touch command the file will be
created,however if you use vim or nano command the text file will create and a text editor will open 
for you to edit that file as well. Vim and nano are the text editors in Linux, Like we have notepad in 
Windows.
                    touch fruits.txt
                    nano fruits.txt
                    vim fruits.txt

To view the content of a file you can use cat commands

                    cat fruits.txt

Q6: Add content in devops.txt (One in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, Guava
To add content in devops file you can use any text editor (vim or nano) and then add one by one.

                    vim devops.txt 

Q7: To Show only top three fruits from the file.
you can use following command to view first 3 fruits in the file 

                    cat fruits.txt | head -3

Q8: To Show only bottom three fruits from the file.
you can use following command to view bottom 3 fruits in the file 

                    cat fruits.txt | tail -3

Q9: To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content. To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content.. Add content in Colors.txt (One in each line) - Red, Pink, White, Black, Blue, Orange, Purple, Grey.
Same as Q6

To find the difference between fruits.txt and Colors.txt file.
You can use following command to check the different between fruits.txt and colors.txt files.

                    diff fruits.txt colors.txt



    